---
title: 'Invited to speak on our work at IPAC 2025 in Taiwan!'
date: 2025-08-01
permalink: /posts/2025-08-01-ipac2025.md
tags:
  - High-level guidelines
  - Conference
  - IPAC
---

This summer, I had the absolute honour of being invited to give a talk at the International Particle Accelerator Conference (IPAC) 2025. This year, IPAC was based in Taipei, Taiwan, so before my invite I had originally decided not to attend on the grounds of environmental impacts. However, being given a talk at IPAC is not something I felt I should turn down, 1) because of the reach my talk on sustainability in accelerators and research could have, and 2) because -- quite frankly -- I'm an early career researcher and at some point I'm going to need to job hunt. 

The conference itself was fantastic, with such a broad scientific programme. I was pleased to see a talk from Ben Shepherd on ["Assessing and increasing the sustainability of future accelerator based facilities"](https://indico.jacow.org/event/81/contributions/6338/) alongside quite a few talks that included or at least mentioned sustainability, and to talk to some poster presenters who presented significant work towards sustainability.

I gave my talk on the Tuesday of IPAC, with some still quite intense jet lag. I spoke on our living document: ["High-Level Environmental Sustainability Guidelines for Large Accelerator Facilities"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.14979). It was all a bit of a blur really, but an absolutely fantastic experience. Even with the jet lag I managed to have many interesting discussions and conversations and made some great connections with which continue work on sustainability in research!
